Hi, this is Tom Greenwood from sydneyportraits.com.au.
In this clip we are going to look at outdoor
portrait photography.
We are going to look at some common mistakes
particularly relating to light and background.
So were in the park.
It’s the middle of the day.
It's hot and above all it’s very very sunny.
And we're looking at the best possible spot
to shoot some portraits.
So we’ve chosen to position our subject
out in the open.
We’ve got a nice tree in the background
but straight away we confront a quite obvious
problem.
It’s too sunny.
Our subject is squinting at the camera.
Even if she can manage to keep her eyes open
we are going to get some nasty dark shadows
around her eyes.
So clearly facing into the sun on a bright
sunny day like this is really not going to
work.
So instead we are going to head into some
shade.
We’re heading into the really deep shade.
And in this instance our subject has no problem
keeping her eyes open.
But it’s really a bit too dark.
We've had to raise the ISO from 100 to 400.
This isn't a disaster but it does mean a bit
more noise in the image.
The pictures aren't too bad but the light
is a little bit flat and on a bright sunny
day like today, surely we can find a spot
where the light is a bit more dynamic.
Now we are still in the shade but we're on
the edge of the shade which means we still
have lots of light.
Here we face a different issue: the background
is much brighter than our subject.
That means that while she looks great, the
background is really burnt out.
So again we are looking for a spot in the
shade but on the edge of the shade so there's
lots of bright indirect natural light.
And here we’ve got lots of shady trees which
make a much better background.
So all looking good except, uh-oh, someone
is on the phone in the background.
Now it’s very easy when shooting portraits
to concentrate on the subject and not notice
what's going on behind the subject.
Finally we’ve found a spot where the subject
is bathed in that beautiful indirect sunlight.
She’s not squinting we’ve got an attractive
background that doesn't distract from the
portrait subject.
So I hope this clip was useful in understanding
the basics of light and background when shooting
outdoor portraits.
So thanks for watching and please feel free
to leave a comment or take a look at some
of the other clips series.